Cherry-picked Main-to-dev sync (#2299)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/assets/physx-colliders.md

linkTitle: PhysX Assets
title: Process PhysX Collider Assets
description: Learn to customize PhysX collider asset processing in Open 3D Engine (O3DE) with Scene Settings.
weight: 400
toc: true
---

> **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** has a robust set of options for generating PhysX collider assets. There are three PhysX collider types that you can use in different simulation scenarios. This topic explains the benefits and limitations of the different collider types, as well as the basics of generating PhysX asset colliders with  [**Scene Settings**](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/scene-settings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** has a robust set of options for generating PhysX collider assets. In [Scene Settings](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/scene-settings), you can customize PhysX collider asset generation. The generated PhysX colliders are stored in `.pxmesh` product assets. You can add the PhysX collider assets to a **PhysX Mesh Collider** component.
```

> The generated PhysX colliders are stored in `.pxmesh` product assets. You can add the PhysX collider assets to a **PhysX Collider** component by selecting **PhysicsAsset** in the component's **Shape** property.

Reviewer 2: This incorporates some changes introduced in a [PR](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/commit/2d12811ca0cdf54c6d9aa88d5c080cfefed715d6#diff-687a70c2c47e65118bd6661d32ab408798602293203e4400e42055ce77eb83f9R9) to the `development` branch made last week. See the [blame](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/blame/development/content/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/assets/physx-colliders.md#L9) for this file's history.
```suggestion
The generated PhysX colliders are stored in `.pxmesh` product assets. You can add the PhysX collider assets to a **PhysX Mesh Collider** component.

```

Reviewer 3: Good catch! But I wonder if the change should be this:

You can add the PhysX collider assets to a **PhysX Mesh Collider** component by selecting **PhysicsAsset** in the component's **Shape** property.

@micronAMZN made the recent change to main and might have some additional insight.

> The generated PhysX colliders are stored in `.pxmesh` product assets. You can add the PhysX collider assets to a **PhysX Collider** component by selecting **PhysicsAsset** in the component's **Shape** property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three PhysX asset collider types that you can use in different simulation scenarios. This topic explains the benefits and limitations of the different collider types, as well as the basics of generating PhysX asset colliders with Scene Settings.
```

{{< note >}}
Understanding the [best practices](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/source-asset-best-practices#physx) for creating PhysX collider source assets can mitigate issues you might encounter when processing colliders for O3DE. For technical details about the data supported by colliders, refer to the [supported 3D scene data](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/scene-format-support#supported-3d-scene-data) table.
{{< /note >}}

| O3DE Experience | Time to Complete | Feature Focus | Last Updated |
| - | - | - | - |
| Beginner | 25 Minutes | Customized processing of PhysX collider assets from `.fbx` files with Scene Settings. | January 4, 2023 |

> ## Entity behavior

Reviewer 2: I think there should be some changes introduced by this [PR](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/pull/2230/files#diff-687a70c2c47e65118bd6661d32ab408798602293203e4400e42055ce77eb83f9) to development made last month. The changes introduced spread throughout the file. See the [blame](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/blame/development/content/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/assets/physx-colliders.md#L17-L19) for this file's history.

Reviewer: Adding the correct changes.

    If your asset has already been processed, you might see a preview image of the asset and a list of product assets below the `.fbx` source asset.

> 1. To open Scene Settings, **double-click** the `.fbx` source asset, and then choose **Edit settings...** from the context menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To open Scene Settings, right-click the `.fbx` source asset, and then choose **Edit settings...** from the context menu.
```
